README.md, before:

# Flaredown
[![rspec](https://github.com/rubyforgood/Flaredown/actions/workflows/rspec.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rubyforgood/Flaredown/actions/workflows/rspec.yml)
[![frontend](https://github.com/rubyforgood/Flaredown/actions/workflows/frontend.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rubyforgood/Flaredown/actions/workflows/frontend.yml)
[![ERB lint](https://github.com/rubyforgood/Flaredown/actions/workflows/erb_lint.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rubyforgood/Flaredown/actions/workflows/erb_lint.yml)
[![standardrb lint](https://github.com/rubyforgood/Flaredown/actions/workflows/ruby_lint.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rubyforgood/Flaredown/actions/workflows/ruby_lint.yml)

Flaredown makes it easy for people to track symptoms over time, and learn how to control them. Our goal is to analyze the aggregate data from users of this tool to understand the probable effects of treatments and environmental stressors on chronic illness.

Help would be appreciated! Please join us in [slack #flaredown](https://rubyforgood.herokuapp.com/) or raise a github issue, or email the contact@flaredown email which is currently checked every few days.

## Environment

* PostgreSQL 12.8
* MongoDB 4.4.9 https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-os-x/
* Redis 6.2.3
* Ruby 3.0.6 (see [RVM](https://rvm.io/) also)
* Node 12.22.6

## Installation

All dependencies are dockerized, including the application and can be run using `docker compose` so there's no dependencies to install other than docker.

If you want to run the application on your own machine see the next sections on dependency installations

### Mac

_If you are running on an M1 mac, run the following command before you start the installation process:_
```bash
$env /usr/bin/arch -arm64 /bin/zsh ---login
```

_Remove all gems before you proceed_
```bash
gem uninstall -aIx
```

### Backend

On macOS, you can install libpq by running `brew install libpq && brew link --force libpq && bundle config --local build.pg "--with-ldflags=-L$(brew --prefix libpq)/lib --with-pg-include=$(brew --prefix libpq)/include"`, which is required for `bundle install` to succeed.

```bash
cd backend
echo "gem: --no-ri --no-rdoc" > ~/.gemrc
bundle config set --local without 'production'
bundle config set --local jobs 5
bundle config set --local retry 10
bundle install
cp env-example .env # You may adjust it however you like
                    # RVM is going to autoload this on every 'cd' to the directory
bundle exec rake app:setup

gem install foreman
```

### Frontend

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
```

### React Native

```bash
cd native
npm install
```

## Running / Development

### General
It is necessary to populate environment parameters. You can take `backend/env-example` and add it to a new file in `backend/.env` and `frontend/.env`. You'll need to create a [Facebook dev app](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/development/create-an-app) and paste your own ID the frontend env file's `FACEBOOK_APP_ID` parameter. This is not necessary in the backend env but we have not yet cleaned up these two files into the necessary components.

### Docker

From the project root:

```bash
docker compose --profile dev up
```

This will build and run all the containers necessary to run the application locally.

Visit your app at [http://localhost:4300](http://localhost:4300)


### Docker (React Native)

From the project root:

```bash
docker compose --profile dev native
``` 

This will build and run all the containers necessary to run the application locally.

Visit your app at [http://localhost:19006](http://localhost:19006)

### Local Machine Installation

From the project root:

```bash
docker compose up
```

```bash
rake run
```

## CI

Several checks are configured to run on all commits using Github Actions, including lint, build and test steps. Definitions can be found in [./github/workflows](./github/workflows). Those checks which always run are required to be successful for PRs to be mergable.

## Deployment

Deployments target [Heroku](https://heroku.com). The traditional deployment is manually configured and is composed of two distinct applications (frontend and api) in two environments (staging and production), with automatic deployments to staging of commits to master:

* [flaredown-staging-api](https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/flaredown-staging-api)
* [flaredown-staging-webapp](https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/flaredown-staging-webapp) (https://app.flaredown.com)
* [flaredown-api](https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/flaredown-api)
* [flaredown-webapp](https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/flaredown-webapp) (https://staging.flaredown.com) (Temporarily https://flaredown-staging-webapp.herokuapp.com/login due to https://github.com/rubyforgood/Flaredown/issues/506)

Addons are used for Heroku Postgres, Heroku Redis, Heroku Scheduler + Papertrail. MongoDB is provided by mongodb.com.

## Style Guide

### 🎨 [Figma Assets](https://www.figma.com/proto/MBVn73pD6JbBkxd65KSZHr/Flaredown-Guide?page-id=0%3A1&node-id=1%3A3&viewport=241%2C48%2C0.45&scaling=contain&starting-point-node-id=1%3A3)

## Common Problems
* On first load, the app displays a blank beige screen instead of the login screen. Temporary fix is to add  `console.log(process.env.FACEBOOK_APP_ID)` right inside of the module.exports at the top of the `frontend/config/environment.js` file. You can then refresh the page (no need to kill Docker) and this should fix it. You can now remove the log.

## License
Copyright 2015-2017 Logan Merriam and contributors.

Flaredown is open source software made available under the GPLv3 License. For details see the LICENSE file.

Commit message:

Update weather API to Tomorrowio (#689)
* Update weather API

* Use postal code

Postal code is non nullable in the DB

* Update weather retriever to use dig

* Standardrb tool fixes

* Ignore .DS_Store files

* Partial change to VCR

* Pin tomorrowio dependency

* Fix Gemfile.lock

* Fix bugs and tests

* Add local test instructions

README.md, after:

# Flaredown
[![rspec](https://github.com/rubyforgood/Flaredown/actions/workflows/rspec.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rubyforgood/Flaredown/actions/workflows/rspec.yml)
[![frontend](https://github.com/rubyforgood/Flaredown/actions/workflows/frontend.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rubyforgood/Flaredown/actions/workflows/frontend.yml)
[![ERB lint](https://github.com/rubyforgood/Flaredown/actions/workflows/erb_lint.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rubyforgood/Flaredown/actions/workflows/erb_lint.yml)
[![standardrb lint](https://github.com/rubyforgood/Flaredown/actions/workflows/ruby_lint.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rubyforgood/Flaredown/actions/workflows/ruby_lint.yml)

Flaredown makes it easy for people to track symptoms over time, and learn how to control them. Our goal is to analyze the aggregate data from users of this tool to understand the probable effects of treatments and environmental stressors on chronic illness.

Help would be appreciated! Please join us in [slack #flaredown](https://rubyforgood.herokuapp.com/) or raise a github issue, or email the contact@flaredown email which is currently checked every few days.

## Environment

* PostgreSQL 12.8
* MongoDB 4.4.9 https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-os-x/
* Redis 6.2.3
* Ruby 3.0.6 (see [RVM](https://rvm.io/) also)
* Node 12.22.6

## Installation

All dependencies are dockerized, including the application and can be run using `docker compose` so there's no dependencies to install other than docker.

If you want to run the application on your own machine see the next sections on dependency installations

### Mac

_If you are running on an M1 mac, run the following command before you start the installation process:_
```bash
$env /usr/bin/arch -arm64 /bin/zsh ---login
```

_Remove all gems before you proceed_
```bash
gem uninstall -aIx
```

### Backend

On macOS, you can install libpq by running `brew install libpq && brew link --force libpq && bundle config --local build.pg "--with-ldflags=-L$(brew --prefix libpq)/lib --with-pg-include=$(brew --prefix libpq)/include"`, which is required for `bundle install` to succeed.

```bash
cd backend
echo "gem: --no-ri --no-rdoc" > ~/.gemrc
bundle config set --local without 'production'
bundle config set --local jobs 5
bundle config set --local retry 10
bundle install
cp env-example .env # You may adjust it however you like
                    # RVM is going to autoload this on every 'cd' to the directory
bundle exec rake app:setup

gem install foreman
```

### Frontend

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
```

### React Native

```bash
cd native
npm install
```

## Running / Development

### General
It is necessary to populate environment parameters. You can take `backend/env-example` and add it to a new file in `backend/.env` and `frontend/.env`. You'll need to create a [Facebook dev app](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/development/create-an-app) and paste your own ID the frontend env file's `FACEBOOK_APP_ID` parameter. This is not necessary in the backend env but we have not yet cleaned up these two files into the necessary components.

### Docker

From the project root:

```bash
docker compose --profile dev up
```

This will build and run all the containers necessary to run the application locally.

Visit your app at [http://localhost:4300](http://localhost:4300)


### Docker (React Native)

From the project root:

```bash
docker compose --profile dev native
``` 

This will build and run all the containers necessary to run the application locally.

Visit your app at [http://localhost:19006](http://localhost:19006)

### Local Machine Installation

From the project root:

```bash
docker compose up
```

```bash
rake run
```

## Running tests locally
1. Run `docker compose build backend` to ensure the latest backend is being run
2. To run all tests run `script/backend rspec spec spec`, or you can run a specific test suite such as `script/backend rspec spec spec/services/weather_retriever_spec.rb `
3. Debugging tip: in Ruby code you can add a line that says `debugger` and rspec will automatically break on that line and give you an interactive Ruby shell

## CI

Several checks are configured to run on all commits using Github Actions, including lint, build and test steps. Definitions can be found in [./github/workflows](./github/workflows). Those checks which always run are required to be successful for PRs to be mergable.

## Deployment

Deployments target [Heroku](https://heroku.com). The traditional deployment is manually configured and is composed of two distinct applications (frontend and api) in two environments (staging and production), with automatic deployments to staging of commits to master:

* [flaredown-staging-api](https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/flaredown-staging-api)
* [flaredown-staging-webapp](https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/flaredown-staging-webapp) (https://app.flaredown.com)
* [flaredown-api](https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/flaredown-api)
* [flaredown-webapp](https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/flaredown-webapp) (https://staging.flaredown.com) (Temporarily https://flaredown-staging-webapp.herokuapp.com/login due to https://github.com/rubyforgood/Flaredown/issues/506)

Addons are used for Heroku Postgres, Heroku Redis, Heroku Scheduler + Papertrail. MongoDB is provided by mongodb.com.

## Style Guide

### 🎨 [Figma Assets](https://www.figma.com/proto/MBVn73pD6JbBkxd65KSZHr/Flaredown-Guide?page-id=0%3A1&node-id=1%3A3&viewport=241%2C48%2C0.45&scaling=contain&starting-point-node-id=1%3A3)

## Common Problems
* On first load, the app displays a blank beige screen instead of the login screen. Temporary fix is to add  `console.log(process.env.FACEBOOK_APP_ID)` right inside of the module.exports at the top of the `frontend/config/environment.js` file. You can then refresh the page (no need to kill Docker) and this should fix it. You can now remove the log.

## License
Copyright 2015-2017 Logan Merriam and contributors.

Flaredown is open source software made available under the GPLv3 License. For details see the LICENSE file.
